.TH VTC 1 "December 2024" "VTC Compiler alpha" "VTC Manual"
.SH NAME
vtc \- A fast and lightweight compiler.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vtc
.RI [options] "files..."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vtc
is a compiler that processes source files and generates executable programs, object files, or assembly output depending on the options provided.

Each input
.I file
is processed according to the specified options and can be compiled, assembled, or linked to produce the desired output.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-help
Display this help message and exit.

.TP
.BR \-\-version
Display the version information and exit.

.TP
.BR \-o " <file>"
Write output to the specified
.IR <file>.

.TP
.BR \-S
Compile only; do not assemble or link. The output will be in assembly format.

.TP
.BR \-c
Compile and assemble, but do not link. The output will be an object file.

.TP
.BR \-M
Sets the module directory.

.SH OPERANDS
Each
.I file
is treated as a source file to be compiled, or an object file to be linked, depending on the options specified.

.SH EXAMPLES
Compile a file into an object file:
.EX
vtc -c source.vl
.EE

Compile and assemble a file, then specify an output file:
.EX
vtc -o output.o -c source.vl
.EE

Print version information:
.EX
vtc --version
.EE

.SH BUGS
To report bugs or request features, please visit:
.EX
https://github.com/vx-clutch/vtc/issues
.EE

.SH AUTHOR
Developed and maintained by
.B vx-clutch and other Authors.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2024 vx-clutch. Distributed under the terms of the BSD 3-Clause Licence

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ld (1),
.BR nasm (1),
.BR cmod (1),
.BR uname (1),
